.Dd May 8, 2026
.Dt SPENT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm spent
.Nd append per-folder time-tracking entries to a CSV log
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar duration
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Op Ar "#REF | !REF"
.Op Fl m Ar message
.Op Fl st Ar "DD-MM-YY HH:MM"
.Op Fl et Ar "DD-MM-YY HH:MM"
.Nm
.Cm config
.Op Cm show
.Op Fl -reset-site
.Nm
.Cm push
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility appends a single time-tracking entry to a CSV log file in the
current working directory.
The log file is named
.Pa .spent-MM-YYYY.log
and is partitioned by the entry's start month, so logs from different
folders never collide and a fresh file is opened each calendar month.
.Pp
Each row contains six always-quoted fields (RFC 4180):
.Bl -tag -width "duration" -compact
.It duration
The duration argument exactly as written.
.It type
One of the allowed types, or empty.
.It ref
The issue or merge-request reference, or empty.
.It message
The free-text note, or empty.
.It start
Start time formatted
.Sy DD-MM-YY HH:MM .
.It end
End time formatted
.Sy DD-MM-YY HH:MM .
.El
.Sh ARGUMENTS
.Bl -tag -width "-st DD-MM-YY HH:MM"
.It Ar duration
Required.
Format
.Sy 2h ,
.Sy 30m ,
.Sy 4h30m ,
or
.Sy 90m .
At least one of the hours or minutes components must be present;
bare numbers are rejected.
.It Fl t Ar type
Optional.
One of:
.Sy dev ,
.Sy test ,
.Sy plan ,
.Sy call ,
.Sy prompt ,
.Sy message ,
.Sy other .
.It Ar #N | !N
Optional positional reference, e.g.\&
.Sy #42
for an issue or
.Sy !100
for a merge-request.
The token is stored verbatim, including the leading sigil.
.It Fl m Ar message
Optional free-text note.
Commas, double quotes and other punctuation are escaped automatically
per RFC 4180.
.It Fl st Ar "DD-MM-YY HH:MM"
Optional start time.
.It Fl et Ar "DD-MM-YY HH:MM"
Optional end time.
.El
.Sh TIME DEFAULTS
When
.Fl st
or
.Fl et
are omitted, the missing values are computed:
.Bl -tag -width "-st only " -compact
.It neither
.Va st = now - duration ,
.Va et = now
.It Fl st only
.Va et = st + duration
.It Fl et only
.Va st = et - duration
.It both
used as-is; the duration argument becomes a display label and is not
checked against the explicit window
.El
.Sh OUTPUT
The CSV header line
.Pp
.Dl duration,type,ref,message,start,end
.Pp
is written exactly once, when the target file is first created.
Each invocation appends one row.
A success message is printed to standard error.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Ss config
.Nm
.Cm config
sets up publishing for the current folder.
It writes two files
.Po both with mode 0600 Pc :
a global file at
.Pa ~/.config/spent/site.conf
holding the Cloudflare Pages project name, public URL base, and local
cache directory; and a per-folder file at
.Pa ./.spent-config
holding the client display name and URL slug.
On first run it prompts for both layers; on subsequent runs in a new
folder it only prompts for the per-folder values.
.Pp
After the config files are written
.Nm
copies the bundled
.Pa template/index.html
into
.Pa <cache>/<slug>/ ,
writes an empty
.Pa months.json ,
and runs
.Sy "wrangler pages deploy"
so the page is live before any data has been pushed.
If
.Sy wrangler
is not installed or not logged in, the deploy step is skipped with a
clear message and the config files are still written.
.Pp
.Cm config show
prints both layers verbatim.
.Cm config --reset-site
forces the global prompts to reappear.
.Ss push
.Nm
.Cm push
publishes (or refreshes) the per-month JSON files to the Pages project.
The static page is left in place; only the data files change between
pushes.
See the
.Sx FILES
section for the cache layout.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa ./.spent-MM-YYYY.log
Per-folder, per-month CSV log written in the current working directory.
.It Pa ./.spent-config
Per-folder publishing config: client display name and URL slug.
.It Pa ~/.config/spent/site.conf
Global publishing config: Cloudflare Pages project name, public URL
base, and local cache directory.
.It Pa ~/.local/share/spent/site/<slug>/
Local cache mirroring what is deployed to Pages.
Contains
.Pa index.html ,
.Pa months.json ,
and one
.Pa <YYYY-MM>.json
per month.
.It Pa ~/.local/share/spent/template/
Bundled HTML template, symlinked here by
.Pa install.sh .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It 0
Entry appended successfully.
.It 1
Filesystem error (cannot create or append to the log file).
.It 2
Usage error (missing or invalid arguments).
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Two hours of dev work on issue #42:
.Pp
.Dl spent 2h -t dev #42 -m "fix CSV escaping"
.Pp
A 30-minute planning session, no reference:
.Pp
.Dl spent 30m -t plan -m "scope review"
.Pp
A one-hour call with explicit start and end:
.Pp
.Dl spent 1h -st "29-04-26 09:00" -et "29-04-26 10:00" -t call -m "kickoff"
.Pp
A short note with punctuation in the message:
.Pp
.Dl spent 5m -m 'note with comma, and quote'
.Sh COMPATIBILITY
Bash 3.2 compatible.
macOS-only: uses BSD
.Xr date 1
.Fl j Fl f
parsing.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr date 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Marco Santana
